== Browsing the code ==

The HOP source code may be browsed on-line from our Mercurial
,(<A> :href (home-source-url) "repository").

~~ The Mercurial repository can be cloned with:

  hg clone http://hop.inria.fr:4000 hop


~~ Want to find out what we have been doing lately? Check the video!

,(<DIV> :style "margin-left: 4em"
   (<VIDEO> :controls #t
      (<SOURCE> :src (make-file-name (home-dir) "videos/changelog.ogv")
         :type "video/ogg")
      (<SOURCE> :src (make-file-name (home-dir) "videos/changelog.flv")
         :type "video/x-flv")
      :width 320 :height 240))


== Mailing List ==

The HOP mailing list is now hosted by 
[[http://www-sop.inria.fr|INRIA Sophia Antipolis]]. Its email address is 
,(<TT> (<A> :href "mailto:hop@lists-sop.inria.fr" "hop@lists-sop.inria.fr")).


=== Registration ===

Information requests, subcription/unsubscription to the mailing list must be 
sent to ,(<TT> (<A> :href "mailto:sympa@lists-sop.inria.fr?subject=HELP" 
"sympa@lists-sop.inria.fr")).

  * To **subscribe** to the mailing list, simply send a message with the 
 words ,(<SPAN> :style "color: red" "\"subscribe hop\"") 
 in the ++Subject:++ field to the address above.
 Alternatively you can click the following link: 
 ,(<A> :href "mailto:sympa@lists-sop.inria.fr?subject=subscribe%20hop" 
"subscribe now").


  * To **unsubscribe** to the mailing list, simply send a message with 
 the words ,(<TT> (<SPAN> :style "color: red" "unsubscribe \"hop\"")) in the 
 ++Subject:++ field to the address above. 
 Alternatively you can click the following link:
 ,(<A> :href "mailto:sympa@lists-sop.inria.fr?subject=unsubscribe%20hop" 
"unsubscribe now").


  * To get some help with the mailing list, simply send a message with the 
 word ,(<SPAN> :style "color: red" "\"HELP\"") in the ++Subject:++
 field to ,(<TT> (<A> :href "mailto:sympa@lists-sop.inria.fr"
 "sympa@lists-sop.inria.fr")). 
 Alternatively you can click the following link:
 ,(<A> :href "mailto:sympa@lists-sop.inria.fr?subject=HELP" "help me").

=== Archives ===

Three archives of this mailing list are available. 

  - A local
 [[https://lists-sop.inria.fr/wws/arc/hop|archive]].
  - A remote archive hosted by
 [[http://dir.gmane.org/gmane.lisp.scheme.hop|Gname]].

