<doc> Charset

== Description ==

Character sets encoding and decoding

== Synopsis ==

=== Server ===

  (charset-convert obj symbol symbol)
  (charset-converter symbol symbol)
  (charset-converter! symbol symbol)
  (iso-latin->utf8 string)
  (iso-latin->utf8! string)
  (utf8->iso-latin string)
  (utf8->iso-latin! string)
  (utf8->iso-latin-15 string)
  (utf8->iso-latin-15! string)
  (utf8-string->ucs2-string string)


=== Server & Client  ===

  (ucs2-string->utf8-string string)


== Examples ==

<example>charset, utf8, ucs2, iso-latin, hop-locale, hop-charset</example>

== Introduction ==

In this document, the term //charset// refers to a //character set//. A
charset is used to specified how texts are encoded. A charset is referenced
to by its name. Here is the list of  charsets supported by HOP:

  * UTF-8
  * ISO-LATIN-1
  * ISO-8859-1
  * ISO-8859-2
  * ISO-8859-15
  * WINDOWS-1252
  * UCS-2

The list of supported charsets is likely to grow with new HOP revisions.


== Server ==

=== ++(charset string charset1 charset2)++ ===
<function> charset-convert string charset1 charset2

<arguments>
^  arguments  ^   type   ^   description                                   ^
| string      |  string  | The string to be translated.                    |
| charset1    |  symbol  | A charset identifier.                           |
| charset2    |  symbol  | A charset identifier.                           |
</arguments>

The function ++charset-convert++ converts a //string// from a charset
named //charset1// into an equivalent string but implemented in another
charset.
</function>

=== ++(charset-converter charset1 charset2)++ ===
=== ++(charset-converter! charset1 charset2)++ ===
<function> charset-converter charset1 charset2
<function> charset-converter! charset1 charset2

<arguments>
^  arguments  ^   type   ^   description                                   ^
| charset1    |  symbol  | A charset identifier.                           |
| charset2    |  symbol  | A charset identifier.                           |
</arguments>

The function ++charset-converter++ returns a function that converts a
//string// from a charset named //charset1// into an equivalent string
but implemented in another charset. Hence

  (charset-convert str c1 c2)


is equivalent to:

  ((charset-converter c1 c2) str)


is equivalent to:

  ((charset-converter! c1 c2) (string-copy str))


</function>
</function>

=== ++(iso-latin->utf8 string)++ ===
=== ++(iso-latin->utf8! string)++ ===
<function> iso-latin->utf8
<function> iso-latin->utf8!

<arguments>
^  arguments  ^   type   ^   description                                   ^
| string      |  string  | The string to be translated.                    |
<arguments>

Converts a string encoding with the ++ISO-LATIN-1++ charset into the
++UTF-8++ charset.
</function>
</function>

=== ++(utf8->iso-latin string)++ ===
=== ++(utf8->iso-latin! string)++ ===
=== ++(utf8->iso-latin-15 string)++ ===
=== ++(utf8->iso-latin-15! string)++ ===
<function> utf8->iso-latin
<function> utf8->iso-latin!
<function> utf8->iso-latin-15
<function> utf8->iso-latin-15!

<arguments>
^  arguments  ^   type   ^   description                                   ^
| string      |  string  | The string to be translated.                    |
<arguments>

Converts a string encoding with the ++UTF-8++ charset into the
 ++ISO-LATIN-1++ (respec. ++ISO-LATIN-15++) charset.
</function>
</function>

=== ++(utf8-string->ucs2-string string)++ ===
<function> utf8-string->ucs2-string
<arguments>
^  arguments  ^   type   ^   description                                   ^
| string      |  string  | The string to be translated.                    |
<arguments>

Converts a string encoding with the ++UTF-8++ charset into the
 ++UCS-2++ charset.
</function>


== Server & Client Definitions ==

=== ++(ucs2-string->utf8-string string)++ ===
<function> ucs2-string->utf8-string
<procedure> ucs2-string->utf8-string
<arguments>
^  arguments  ^   type   ^   description                                   ^
| string      |  string  | The string to be translated.                    |
<arguments>

Converts a string encoding with the  ++UCS-2++ charset into the
++UTF-8++ charset.
</procedure>
</function>


== See also ==

<see-also>charset, ISO-LATIN, UTF-8, UCS-2</see-also>

</doc>
