<doc> Cookies

== Description ==

This page describes the facilities of the HOP library for retrieving, 
modifying, and removing cookies.

== Synopsis ==

=== Server ===

  (http-cookie-get string)

=== Client ===

  (cookie-get string)
  (cookie-set! string val)
  (cookie-remove! string)

== Examples ==
<example>cookie</example>

== Server Definitions ==
<server>

=== ++(http-cookie-get request name)++ ===
<function> http-cookie-get
<arguments>
^  arguments       ^   type           ^  short description              ^
| request          |  ::http-request  | a request.                      |
| name             |  string          | the name of the cookie.         |
</arguments>

This function retrieves from the header of the ++request++ the cookie 
information transmitted by the client.
</function>
</server>

== Client definitions ==
<client>

=== ++(cookie-get name)++ ===
<procedure> cookie-get
<arguments>
^  arguments       ^   type           ^  short description              ^
| name             |  string          | the name of the cookie.         |
</arguments>

This function retrieves the cookie information for ++name++ in the current
document.
</procedure>

=== ++(cookie-set! name value)++ ===
<procedure> cookie-set!
<arguments>
^  arguments       ^   type           ^  short description              ^
| name             |  string          | the name of the cookie.         |
| value            |  string          | a cookie value.                 |
</arguments>

This function associates a new string with the cookie ++name++ on the
current document.

~~ Cookies can automatically be stored on document at load time. If an
answer to a client request contains a Set-Cookie: field, this forces
the client to associate a cookie with the document it will build for
displaying the request. For instance, the following HOP response stores
a cookie named ++Foo++ with value ++"foo"++ and that will last one minute
one the client:

  (instantiate::http-response-string
     (body "Cookie \"Foo\" installed")
     (header '(("Set-Cookie:" . "Foo=\"foo\"; Max-Age=60"))))


</procedure>

=== ++(cookie-remove! name value)++ ===
<procedure> cookie-remove!
<arguments>
^  arguments       ^   type           ^  short description              ^
| name             |  string          | the name of the cookie.         |
</arguments>

This function removes the cookie ++name++ from the current document.
</procedure>

</client>

<see-also>cookie</see-also>
</doc>
