<doc> Editor widget

== Description ==

The //editor// widget enables client side wysiwyg.

~~ Note: ,(<SPAN> :style { font-weight: bold; color: red } [
The markups presented in this page are not yet supported on
client side programming. They are only supported on server side.])

== Synopsis ==

=== Server ===

  (<EDITOR>> args ...)

=== Client ===

=== Requirements ===

Client codes using //Editors// need to load the script ++hop-editor.js++.
They also need to load the ++hop-editor.css++ style sheet.  Hence, documents
using //editors// must include in their header, the following statement:


  (<HEAD> :include "hop-editor")


== Examples ==

<example><EDITOR></example>

== Server Definitions ==
<server>

=== ++<EDITOR>++ ===
<markup> <EDITOR>

<arguments>
^  attributes  ^   type    ^   default    ^  short description          ^
| :id          |  string   |  //random//  | element identifier.         |
| :width       |  dimension  |  //100%//    | the width                   |
| :heigh       |  dimension  |  //600px//   | the height                  |
| :name        |  string    |              | name (used in forms only)   |
| :submit      |  function  |  see below   | action associated to submit button  |
| :cancel      |  function  |  see below   | action associated to cancel button  |
| :cancel      |  script   |              | the cancel procedure.       |
| body         |   xml     |              | the initial content.        |
</arguments>

By default, the **submit** and **cancel** client functions are associated to 
functions which try to find if the editor is embedded in a form. 
If this is the case, these functions do the right job. Otherwise, they do
nothing. 

~~Submit and Cancel functions are called with the element 
identifier of the editor as parameter. 

</markup>
</server>

== Style ==
<style>
This section describes the various CSS elements used to configure
//Editors//.

=== ++hop-editor.css++ ===

The file ++hop-editor.css++ contains the default graphical configuration.
It is defined as:

~~
<share>hop-editor.css</share>

</style>

== See also ==
<see-also><EDITOR></see-also>

</doc>
