<doc> Exceptions

== Description ==

This page description the HOP machinery for raising and catching exceptions.
The constructions are available on the server //and// the client.

== Synopsis ==

=== Server & Client ===

  (raise exception)
  (error proc msg obj)
  (with-handler handler body)

== Examples ==
<example>with-handler, raise</example>

== Definitions ==
<server>
<client>

=== ++(raise exception)++ ===
<function> raise

<arguments>
^  arguments       ^   type       ^  short description              ^
| exception        |  obj         | the exception.                  |
</arguments>

This function //raises// an exception. That is, it escapes from the
current computation. If the raise call is executed in the dynamic extent
of a ++with-handler++ form, it executes the handler, otherwise, it
terminates the current thread.
</function>

=== ++(error proc msg obj)++ ===
<function> error

<arguments>
^  arguments       ^   type       ^  short description              ^
| proc             |  obj         | a name.                         |
| msg              |  obj         | a message.                      |
| obj              |  obj         | a value.                        |
</arguments>

This procedure ++raise++s a freshly allocated exception denoting the error.
</function>

=== ++(with-handler handler body)++ ===
<function> with-handler

<arguments>
^  arguments       ^   type       ^  short description              ^
| handler          |  procedure   | the exception handler.          |
| body             |              | the protected body.             |
</arguments>

The form ++with-handler++ evaluates its ++body++. If an exception is
++raise++d, the computation is suspended and the ++handler++ is executed in 
the continuation of the ++with-handler++ form. I.e., if the ++handler++
is executed, the value is produces is the value of the whole 
++with-handler++ form.

~~ The handler is a procedure of one argument. When the handler
is invoked, it argument is bound to the ++raise++d exception.
</function>

</client>
</server>

</doc>
