<doc> Server Filters

== Description ==

When the HOP server receives a request, it first parses the stream of input
characters in order to build a ::http-request that contains all the
information needed to serve the client. Then, it applies all the
//filters// for elaborating the answer.

,(<P>)
A filter is a function accepting one parameter, the a request descriptor 
(an instance of ::http-request). It might either return:
  * a request.
  * an response (an instance of ::%http-response).
  * the boolean ++#f++.


HOP executes all the filters in the inverse order of addition until one
filter returns a response. If no filter matches a request, HOP assumes that
a local file whose path is designed in the URL is to be served.


== Synopsis ==

=== server ===

  (hop-filters)
  (hop-filters-set! list)
  (hop-filter-add! procedure)
  (hop-filter-add-always-first! procedure)
  (hop-filter-add-always-last! procedure)
  (hop-filter-remove! procedure)


== Examples ==
<example>hop-filter</example>

== Server Definitions ==
<server>

=== ++(hop-filters)++ ===
<function> hop-filters

Returns the list of currently installed //local// (respectively 
//remote//) hooks.
</function>

=== ++(hop-filters-set! list)++ ===
<function> hop-filters-set!

<arguments>
^  arguments       ^   type       ^  short description              ^
| list             |  list        | a list of hook.                 |
</arguments>

Replaces all the filters.
</function>

=== ++(hop-filter-add! filter)++ ===
=== ++(hop-filter-add-always-first! filter)++ ===
=== ++(hop-filter-add-always-last! filter)++ ===
<function> hop-filter-add!
<function> hop-filter-add-always-first!
<function> hop-filter-add-always-last!

<arguments>
^  arguments       ^   type       ^  short description              ^
| filter           |  procedure   | a filter.                       |
</arguments>

Add the new ++filter++.
</function>
</function>
</function>

=== ++(hop-filter-remove! filter)++ ===
<function> hop-filter-remove!

<arguments>
^  arguments       ^   type       ^  short description              ^
| filter             |  procedure   | a filter.                         |
</arguments>

Remove the new ++filter++ to the list of filters.
filters.
</function>

</server>

== See also ==
<see-also>hop-http-response-local-filter, hop-http-response-remote-filter, http-request, http-response, hop-filter</see-also>

</doc>
