<doc> HEAD markup

== Description ==

The ++<HEAD>++ markup defines the //head// of a document. The HOP
version of ++<HEAD>++ differs from the original HTML definition of
++HEAD++ markup. In particular the HOP version relies on a highly
non-standard way of evaluating its attributes which can occur several
times in an invocation. A typical ++<HEAD>++ looks like:

  (<HEAD>
     :dir <a-path>
     :jscript <foo1.js> :css <foo1.css>
     ...
     :jscript <fooN.js> :css <fooN.css>
     ...
     (<META> ...)
     ...
     (<SCRIPT> :type "text/javascript" ~(a piece of code))
     ...
     (<STYLE> :type "text/css" {cascadeing style sheet elements})
     ...)


== Synopsis ==

=== server ===

  (<HEAD> ...)

== Examples ==

<example><HEAD></example>

== Server Definitions ==
<server>

=== <HEAD> ===
<markup> <HEAD>

<arguments>
^  arguments   ^   type     ^   default    ^  short description                   ^
| :dir         |  string    |     _        | a directory name added to the path.  |
| :css         |  string    |     _        | a CSS/HSS file name.                 |
| :jscript     |  string    |     _        | a script file name.                  |
| :favicon     |  string    |     _        | a favicon file name.                 |
| objs         |  element   |  empty       | the content of the head.             |
</arguments>

The ++<HEAD>++ markup uses special evaluation rules for its
attributes.  Attributes are evaluated from left to right. In
particular, contrary to all other markups, attributes may appear more
than once in the arguments list. In such a case the values are
accumulated (while with other markups, the last provided value
overrides the previous ones).

  * The attribute :dir is a //meta-attribute//. It add a new directory to
 the //search path//. This path is used to find ++css++, ++jscript++, and 
 ++favicon++ files. By default the search path is initialized with a list 
 containing the following elements:
     * the value of the ++hop-share-directory++ parameter.
     * the directory component of the URL of the current request.
 Each occurrence of a :dir attribute adds a new directory in the path.
  * The attribute :css adds a new element to the list of CSS/HSS used in the 
 document. This list is initially empty. Files using relative names are searched
 in the //search path// as described above.
  * The attribute :jscript adds a new element to the list of CSS/HSS used in the 
 document. This list is initially empty. Files using relative names are searched
 in the //search path// as described above.
  * The attribute :favicon specifies an small image to be used in the URL
 area of the web browser. Image files using relative names are searched
 in the //search path// as specified with the :dir attribute.
</markup>
</server>

== See also ==
<see-also><HEAD>, <BODY>, <HTML></see-also>

</doc>
