<doc> Server Hooks

== Description ==

When the HOP server receives a request, it first parses the stream of input
characters in order to build a ::http-request that contains all the
information needed to serve the client. Then, it applies all the
//filters// for elaborating an answer which is an instance of the
::%http-response class. If the answer is an instance of ::http-response-proxy
it applies the //proxy// hooks. Otherwise, it applies the //server// hooks.

~~ A hook is a function accepting two parameters:
  - a request descriptor (an instance of ::http-request).
  - a response descriptor (an instance of ::%http-response).


It must return a response.

~~ Note: For security reason, hooks can only be installed inside the Hop
runtime system, **before the request is answered**. That is, hooks must
be installed from the ,(<TUTORIALREF> "RC file" "07-hoprc.wiki") file.

== Synopsis ==

=== server ===

  (hop-http-response-server-hooks)
  (hop-http-response-server-hooks-set! list)
  (hop-http-response-server-hook-add! procedure)
  (hop-http-response-server-hook-remove! procedure)
  (hop-http-response-proxy-hooks)
  (hop-http-response-proxy-hooks-set! list)
  (hop-http-response-proxy-hook-add! procedure)
  (hop-http-response-proxy-hook-remove! procedure)


== Examples ==
<example>hop-http-response-server-hook, hop-http-response-proxy-hook</example>

== Server Definitions ==
<server>

=== ++(hop-http-response-server-hooks)++ ===
=== ++(hop-http-response-proxy-hooks)++ ===
<function> hop-http-response-server-hooks
<function> hop-http-response-proxy-hooks

Returns the list of currently installed //server// (respectively 
//proxy//) hooks.
</function>
</function>

=== ++(hop-http-response-server-hooks-set! list)++ ===
=== ++(hop-http-response-proxy-hooks-set! list)++ ===
<function> hop-http-response-server-hooks-set!
<function> hop-http-response-proxy-hooks-set!

<arguments>
^  arguments       ^   type       ^  short description              ^
| list             |  list        | a list of hook.                 |
</arguments>

Replaces all the //server// (respectively //proxy//) hooks.
</function>
</function>

=== ++(hop-http-response-server-hook-add! hook)++ ===
=== ++(hop-http-response-proxy-hook-add! hook)++ ===
<function> hop-http-response-server-hook-add!
<function> hop-http-response-proxy-hook-add!

<arguments>
^  arguments       ^   type       ^  short description              ^
| hook             |  procedure   | a hook.                         |
</arguments>

Add the new ++hook++ to the list of //server// (respectively //proxy//) hooks.
</function>
</function>

=== ++(hop-http-response-server-hook-remove! hook)++ ===
=== ++(hop-http-response-proxy-hook-remove! hook)++ ===
<function> hop-http-response-server-hook-remove!
<function> hop-http-response-proxy-hook-remove!

<arguments>
^  arguments       ^   type       ^  short description              ^
| hook             |  procedure   | a hook.                         |
</arguments>

Remove the ++hook++ to the list of //server// (respectively //proxy//) 
hooks.
</function>
</function>

</server>

== See also ==
<see-also>hop-http-response-server-hook, hop-http-response-proxy-hook, http-request, http-response, hop-filter</see-also>

</doc>
