<doc> HTTP remote requests

== Description ==

This page shows how to emit HTTP request from the HOP client side. These
are used to address remote not HOP HTTP servers.

== Synopsis ==

=== Server ===

  (with-url url success [fail])
  (http-send-request request callback)

== Examples ==

<example>with-url, http-send-request</example>

== Server Definitions ==
<server>

=== ++(with-url url success [:fail] [:header] [:timeout])++ ===
<function> with-url
<arguments>
^  arguments  ^   type      ^  default    ^  short description             ^
| url         |  string     |             | a URL of a remote server.      |
| success     |  procedure  |             | a procedure of one argument.   |
| fail        |  procedure  |  ++raise++  | a procedure of one argument.   |
| header      |  list       |  ++()++     | an optional header list.       |
| timeout     |  integer    |  ++0++      | millisecond timeout.           |
</arguments>

The function ++with-url++ opens an HTTP connection with the remote
server pointed to in the ++URL++. On success, it then invokes the
function ++success++ with an object constructed from the service
answer. On failure, it invokes ++failure++.

~~ The argument ++header++ can be used for sending extra information such 
as authentication to the remote host. It syntax is a list of pairs whose
first element is a keyword and the second element a string of characters.

~~ If ++timeout++ is greater than ++0++, the connection will fail after
the amount of time expressed in milliseconds has elapsed.

~~ The function ++with-url++ follows rules similar to the ++with-hop++ form
interpreting the result of the HTTP transaction. It checks the status
code of the HTTP response in order to build the value sent to ++success++:
  * 200 - the result is converted into a string.
  * 201 - the result is converted into a compound object using the JSON 
 protocol (that is, using the ++json->hop++ function).
  * 202 - the result is converted into a compound object using ad-hoc 
 unmarshalling technics.
  * 401, 407 - access denial.
  * all other status codes are interpreted as errors.
</function>

=== ++(http-send-request request callback)++ ===
<function> http-send-request
<arguments>
^  arguments  ^   type           ^   short description  ^
| request     |  ::http-request  | a HTTP request.  |
| callback    |  procedure       | a procedure of five arguments.  |
</arguments>

This low level function is used to handle primitive HTTP requests. 
It opens a connection to a remote HTTP server as referenced to by the
++request++. When such a connection is established, it calls the
++callback++ procedure with five parameters:

  - an input stream containing the characters of the response. If the response
 has no body, the input stream is the boolean ++#f++.
  - an integer denoting the status code.
  - an list denoting the whole HTTP response header.
  - an integer denoting the length of the body of the response.
  - the transfer encoding.
</function>

</server>

== See also ==
<see-also>with-url, http-send-request</see-also>


</doc>
