<doc> Inner Windows

== Description ==

HOP inner windows are window embedded inside the HTML display. They may
contain partial HTML tree or entire documents.

== Synopsis ==

=== Client ===

  (iwindow-open arg ...)
  (iwindow-close win)
  (iwindow-resize win width height)

=== Requirements ===

Documents using //iwindows// need to load the script
++hop-iwindow.js++.  They also might want to load the
++hop-iwindow.css++ style sheet. Hence, documents using //iwindows//
must include in their header, the following statement:


  (<HEAD> :include "hop-iwindow")


== Examples ==

<example>iwindow</example>

== Client Definitions ==
<client>

=== ++(iwindow-open id o [t] [c] [w h] [x y] [p])++ ===
<procedure> iwindow-open

<arguments>
^  arguments  ^   type    ^   description                                   ^
| id          |  string   | the window identifier.                          |
| o           |   obj     | the content material.                           |
| t           |  string   | an optional title, defaults to ++id++.          |
| c           |  string   | an optional class.                              |
| w           |  integer  | the optional width.                             |
| h           |  integer  | the optional height.                            |
| x           |  integer  | the optional X coordinate.                      |
| y           |  integer  | the optional Y coordinate.                      |
| p           |  obj      | an optional parent (defaults to the document).  |
</arguments>

~~
This client-side procedure opens a window. If a window opened under the same
identifier has already been opened, ++iwindow-open++ returns that window.
Otherwise, it creates a new window.

The content of the window can either be:

  * an HTML tree.
  * a string denoting a URL.
  * a procedure denoting a service.


~~ When the optional parent ++p++ is provided, the dragging of the window is
bound in the graphical space used by the parent.

~~ Each time a window title is clicked, its raised to the front of all
windows. For that, they use CSS ++z-index++ that varies from 0 to 999.
Applications that have to display elements in the top of Iwindows must
specify a ++z-index++ greater than 1000.

~~ Inner windows are provided with attributes that control their dynamic
behaviors:

  * ++onclose++: a procedure of zero argument that is invoked after the window
 is closed.
  * ++onresize++: a procedure of zero argument that is invoked after the
 window is resized.
  * ++resizable++: a boolean that controls whether a window can be resized
 using GUI events.


</procedure>

=== ++(iwindow-close obj)++ ===
<procedure> iwindow-close

<arguments>
^  arguments  ^   type    ^   description                                   ^
| obj         |   obj     | A window identifier or a window itself.         |
</arguments>

~~
This client-side procedure closes an //iwindow//.

</procedure>

=== ++(iwindow-resize win width height)++ ===
<procedure> iwindow-resize
<arguments>
^  arguments  ^   type    ^   description                                   ^
| win         |  window   | a window.                                       |
| w           |  integer  | the new width.                                  |
| h           |  integer  | the new height.                                 |
</arguments>

Resize an inner window. The argument ++width++ and ++height++ can either
be integers of strings. Strings are used to represent CSS measures
such as ++23em++ or ++45in++. Integers are used to present //pixels// measures.
We recommend to use this latter form because it allows the Hop client-side 
runtime system to automatically adjust the desired ++width++ and ++height++
with the window's decorations.

</procedure>
<client>

== Style ==
<style>

=== ++.iwindow++ ===
<css> .iwindow

The visual configuration of the body of the window.

</css>

=== ++hop-iwindow.css++ ===

The file ++hop-iwindow.css++ contains the default graphical configuration.
It is defined as:

~~
<share>hop-iwindow.css</share>
</style>

== See also ==
<see-also>TOOLTIP, window</see-also>

</doc>
