<doc> Server parsing source code

== Description ==

These functions parses file according to the HOP syntax.

== Synopsis ==

  (hop-read [input-port] [:charset])
  (hop-load path [:charset] [:env] [:mode] [:hook])
  (hop-load-once path [:charset] [:env] [:hook])
  (hop-load-modified path [:charset] [:env] [:hook])
  (hop-load-once-unmark! path)
  (the-loading-file)
  (the-loading-dir)
  
== Examples ==

<example>hop-read, hop-load, the-loading-file, the-loading-dir</example>

== Server Definitions ==
<server>

=== ++(hop-read [port] [charset (hop-locale) [hook]]++ ===
<function> hop-read

<arguments>
^  arguments  ^    type      ^  short description          ^
| port        |  input-port  | the input port.             |
| charset     |  symbol      | the port charset.           |
</arguments>

The function ++hop-read++ reads an entire expression from an input port.
When a text is read (the ++[...]++ expressions as described in the 
(<SPAN> :class "href wikiref" 
      :onclick ~(with-history
		 (lambda ()
		    (notepad-select "doc-notepad" "doc-core")
		    (window.scrollTo 0 0)))
"Syntex") section)
are //automatically// encoded into the ++charset++ value. That is,
they are assumed to be expressed in the ++(hop-locale)++ encoding and the
reader decodes and re-encodes them using the encoding specified in the
optional ++charset++ argument.

</function>


=== ++(hop-load path [:env] [:mode load] [charset (hop-locale)])++ ===
<function> hop-load

<arguments>
^  arguments  ^   type   ^  short description                      ^
| path        |  string  | the file name to be loaded.             |
| charset     |  symbol  | the port charset.                       |
| env         |  module  | the eval environment.                   |
| mode        |  symbol  | the load mode.                          |
| hook        |  symbol  | a optional procedure of one argument.   |
</arguments>

This function loads the file ++path++. That is, it reads and evaluates
all the expressions. The expressions are evaluated in the environment
++env++. By default the current module's environment is used.

The parameter ++mode++ specifies the loading mode. The --load--
mode evaluates all the loaded expressions and forces ++hop-load++ to
only return the value produced by evaluated the last expression.
The --include-- load mode returns a list of all evaluations.

The parameter ++hook++, when provided, must a procedure of one argument.
It is invoked by ++hop-load++ with the last loaded expression. It is 
evaluated in the environment (i.e., the module) defined by the loaded file.

The function ++hop-load++ is thread safe. No more than one thread
can simultaneously reads a single file.
</function>

=== ++(hop-load-once path [:env] [charset (hop-locale)])++ ===
<function> hop-load-once

<arguments>
^  arguments  ^   type   ^  short description           ^
| path        |  string  | the file name to be loaded.  |
| charset     |  symbol  | the port charset.            |
| env         |  module  | the eval environment.        |
| hook        |  symbol  | a optional procedure of one argument.   |
</arguments>

As ++hop-load++ it loads a file in the ++env++ environment. By contrast
with ++hop-load++ it does not return any value. Hence, ++hop-load-once++
can only be used for its effects.

Invoking ++hop-load-once++ with a parameter ++path++ loads the file in
memory //if not already loaded//. That is, if the file ++path++ is loaded
//if and only if// it has not already been loaded with ++hop-load-once++.

This function is thread safe.
</function>

=== ++(hop-load-modified path [:env])++ ===
<function> hop-load-modified

<arguments>
^  arguments  ^   type   ^  short description           ^
| path        |  string  | the file name to be loaded.  |
| charset     |  symbol  | the port charset.            |
| env         |  module  | the eval environment.        |
| hook        |  symbol  | a optional procedure of one argument.   |
</arguments>

As ++hop-load-once++ but in addition, the file is reloaded if the file
has changed on the disc since it has been loaded.
</function>

=== ++(hop-load-once-unmark! path)++ ===
<function> hop-load-once-unmark!
Unmarks ++path++. The next evaluation of ++(hop-load-once path)++
reloads the file ++path++.
</function>

=== ++(the-loading-file)++ ===
<function> the-loading-file

This function returns the name of the file currently being loaded.

</function>

=== ++(the-loading-dir)++ ===
<function> the-loading-dir

This function returns the dirname of the file currently being loaded.

</function>

</doc>
