<doc> Sound

== Description ==

The functions described in this page permits sound manipulation. Hop 
uses the //Macromedia Flash Player// for producing sound on the client.
The player actually used in Hop also uses the Flash JavaScript
Gateway package of Macromedia. 

== Synopsis ==

=== Client ===

  (hop-make-sound url . args)
  (hop-sound-play sound [count])
  (hop-sound-pause sound)
  (hop-sound-stop sound)
  (hop-sound-volume sound)
  (hop-sound-volume-set! sound)
  (hop-sound-pan sound)
  (hop-sound-pan-set! sound)


=== Requirements ===

Client codes using //Sound// need to load the script
++hop-sound.js++.  Hence, documents using //Sound//
must include in their header, the following statement:


  (<HEAD> :jscript "hop-sound.js")


== Examples ==
<example>hop-make-sound</example>

== Client Definitions ==
<client>

=== ++(hop-make-sound url :stream :onload :onplayed )++ ===
<function> hop-make-sound

This function takes as first argument the URL of the sound to play (as
a string) followed by a list of keyword and values described below

<arguments>
^  attributes  ^   type     ^   default  ^  short description                             ^
| :stream      |  boolean   |  #t        | stream the sound instead of loading it.        |
| :onload      |  function  |            | callback function when sound has been loaded.  |
| :onplayed    |  function  |            | callback function when sound has been played.  |
</arguments>

The argument **:stream** specifies if the sound is streamed from the given URL. 
Note that streamed sounds are automatically played.

The argument **:onload** must be a function taking one parameter. This function
is called when the sound has been completely loaded. The parameter passed 
to the callback is a boolean indicating if the load has succeeded or not.

The argument **:onplayed** must be a function taking no parameter. This function is 
called when the sound has been played.

</function>

=== ++(hop-sound-play sound [count])++ ===
<function> hop-sound-play

<arguments>
^  argument  ^   type    ^  short description                                       ^
| sound      |  sound    | the sound to be played.                                  |
| count      |  integer  | how much times the sound must be played. Defaults to 1.  |
</arguments>
</function>

=== ++(hop-sound-stop sound)++ ===
<function> hop-sound-stop

<arguments>
^  argument  ^   type    ^  short description                                       ^
| sound      | sound     | the sound to be stopped.                                 |
</arguments>
</function>

=== ++(hop-sound-pause sound)++ ===
<function> hop-sound-pause

<arguments>
^  argument  ^   type    ^  short description                                       ^
| sound      |  sound    | the sound to be paused.                                  |
</arguments>
</function>

=== ++(hop-sound-volume sound)++ ===
<function> hop-sound-volume

<arguments>
^  argument  ^   type    ^  short description                                       ^
| sound      |  sound    | the sound.                                               |
</arguments>

The value returned is an integer in the range 0 .. 100.
</function>


=== ++(hop-sound-volume-set! sound)++ ===
<function> hop-sound-volume-set!

<arguments>
^  argument  ^   type    ^  short description                                       ^
| sound      |  sound    | the sound .                                              |
| value      |  integer  | sound value between 0 and 100.                           |
</arguments>
</function>

=== ++(hop-sound-pan sound)++ ===
<function> hop-sound-pan

<arguments>
^  argument  ^   type   ^  short description                                        ^
| sound      |  sound   | the sound.                                                |
</arguments>

This function returns the value of the balance for the given sound (-100 
for left, 0 for centered and +100 for right).
</function>


=== ++(hop-sound-pan-set! sound)++ ===
<function> hop-sound-pan-set!

<arguments>
^  argument  ^   type    ^  short description                      ^
| sound      |  sound    | the sound.                              |
| value      |  integer  | panoramic value between -100 and +100.  |
</arguments>
</function>


</client>

== See also ==


</doc>
