<doc> Tabslider

== Description ==

This page describes the ++<TABSLIDER>++ widget.

~~ Note: ,(<SPAN> :style { font-weight: bold; color: red } [
The markups presented in this page are not yet supported on
client side programming. They are only available on server side.])

== Synopsis ==

=== Server ===

  (<TABSLIDER> args ...)
  (<TSPAN> args ...)
  (<TSHEAD> args ...)

=== Requirements ===

Client codes using //tabsliders// need to load the script ++hop-tabslider.js++.
They also need to load the ++hop-tabslider.css++ style sheet.  Hence, documents
using //tabsliders// must include in their header, the following statement:


  (<HEAD> :include "hop-tabslider")


== Examples ==

<example><TABSLIDER></example>

== Server Definitions ==
<server>

=== ++<TABSLIDER>++ ===
<markup> <TABSLIDER>

<arguments>
^  attributes  ^   type             ^   default    ^  short description      ^
| :id          |  string            |  //random//  | element identifier.     |
| :width       |  dimension         |              | the width.              |
| :height      |  dimension         |              | the height.             |
| :speed       |  integer           |    ++20++    | animation speed (0=no anim).  |            |
| :index       |  integer           |    ++0++     | the selected tab.       |
| :onchange    |  function          |      -       | a function to invoke on pad selection.  |
| history      |  obj               |     _        | enables history.        |
| body         |  ++<TSPAN>++ list  |              | the list of items.      |
</arguments>

The argument ++:history++ controls whether an history event is associated
with selected a tab. When history is enabled, the //back button// of the
browser restores previously selected tabs.  The history is disabled if 
++:history++ is ++#f++. It is enabled if ++:history++ is ++#t++ or 
if it is not ++#f++ and an ++:id++ value is provided.

</markup>

=== ++<TSPAN>++ ===
<markup> <TSPAN>

<arguments>
^  attributes  ^   type      ^   default    ^  short description           ^
| :id          |  string     |  //random//  | element identifier.          |
| :onselect    |  function   |      -       | a function to invoke on pad selection.  |
| body         | HTML tree   |              | the body.                    |
</arguments>

When the body of the <TSPAN> is an object built with the <DELAY> markup, 
then the item is re-computed each time it is re-open.

</markup>

=== ++<TSHEAD>++ ===
<markup> <TSHEAD>

<arguments>
^  attributes  ^   type      ^   default    ^  short description           ^
| :id          |  string     |  //random//  | element identifier.          |
| body         | HTML tree   |              | the body.                    |
</arguments>

</markup>
</server>

== Client Definitions ==
<client>

=== ++(tabslider-select tabslider pan [history #t])++ ===
<procedure> tabslider-select

<arguments>
^  arguments  ^   type                 ^  short description     ^
| tabslider   |  tabslider or string   | the tabslider.         |
| pan         |  pan or string         | the pan.               |
| history     |  a boolean             | enables history.       |
| callback    |  #f or a procedure     | user callback.         |
</arguments>

This function selects a //pan// in a //tabslider//.

  * The ++history++ argument, when true, records the selection in the
browser history.


</procedure>
</client>


== Style ==
<style>

This section describes the various CSS elements used to configure
//tabsliders//.

<share>hop-tabslider.css</share>

</style>

== See also ==
<see-also><TABSLIDER>, tabslider-select</see-also>

</doc>
