<doc> WEBLETS -- A HOP weblet for releasing weblets. 

== Description ==

[[weblets|WEBLETS]] is a Hop program meant for distributing weblets.


== Services ==

Here are the services defined by WEBLETS:

  - ++[[weblets]]++: This is the main entry point of [[weblets|WEBLETS]].
 It generates a GUI that allows users to //browse//, //install//, or //run//
 the available weblets.
  - ++[[weblets/list]]++: Generates a GUI that only contains the weblet
 list. This service can be used by other weblets that have to expose a
 set of widgets (such as the [[home|HOME]] weblet).
  - ++[[weblets/rss]]++: Generates a RSS feeds describing the available widgets.
  - ++[[weblets/synclist]]++: Produce a //publisher// list. That is a list 
 that can be used to feed provided to //synchronized// [[hz|HZ]].  This 
 service takes one argument:
   * ++url++, the url (that could use the ++file://++ syntax) specifying the
 location of the weblets repository for which a list must be produced. This
 argument defaults to ++(weblets-repository)++.
  - ++[[weblets/homepage]]++: Generates dynamically a Home Page for a
 weblet. This service requires one argument :
   * ++weblet**: the base name of the weblet.

== Configuring WEBLETS ==

At load time, ++[[weblets|WEBLETS]]++ reads its configuration files, namely the
++webletsrc.hop++ file which should be located in the directory given by
the ++hop-rc-directory++ parameter 
(which currently is ,(<TT> "\"" (hop-rc-directory) "\"")). This file may
set to the read/write parameters.

=== WEBLETS parameters ===

=== ++weblets-repository++ ===
<parameter> weblets-repository
<parameter> weblets-repository-set!

<arguments>
^  access  ^   type    ^  short description  ^
|   r/w    |  string     | The directory name that contains the weblets.  |
</arguments>
</parameter>
</parameter>

=== ++weblets-categories++ ===
<parameter> weblets-categories

<arguments>
^  access  ^   type    ^  short description  ^
|   r      |  list     | The list of authorized categories.  |
</arguments>
</parameter>

=== ++weblets-publishers++ ===
<parameter> weblets-publishers
<parameter> weblets-publishers-set!

<arguments>
^  access  ^   type    ^  short description  ^
|   r/w  |  string     | The publisher URL.  |
</arguments>
</parameter>

The ++weblet-publishers++ contains the URL that provide the publisher list.
I.e., the list of available weblets in the format of 
,(<WEBLETREF> "HZ"
(make-file-path (hop-weblets-directory) "hz/etc/hz.wiki")) weblet.
</parameter>

== Generating Weblet Homepages ==

The weblet ++[[weblets|WEBLETS]]++ can generate dynamically homage pages for
weblets. The service ++weblets/homepage++ collects all the wiki files it founds
in the directory ++WEBLET/etc/homepage++ and build a web page out of it. 

  * If no wiki file is found, it builds a default web page out of the 
 information found in the weblet.info file.
  * If only one file is found, it is used to generate the home page. 
  * If it finds several pages, they are collected inside a ++<NOTEPAD>++. For 
 a wiki file ++file.wiki++ if it exists a file named ++file.png++ then, the 
 image is used as an icon of the notepad tab. The name of the files may start
 with a numeral prefix followed by a dash sign (i.e, the regular expression
 ++"[0-9]+-"++ in order to sort them. These prefixed are invisible from the
 notepad tabs.


The wiki files that are handled by ++weblets/homepage++ can use four
additional predefined functions:

  - ++(weblet-url)++: the URL of the associated weblet.
  - ++(weblet-etc-dir)++: the weblets cache directory containing the ++etc++ 
 directory of the weblet.
  - ++(weblet-info)++: returns the content of the ++weblet.info++ file read
 as a list.
  - ++(<CODE-HOP> body)++: pretty prints a Hop code source.

  
</doc>
